---
title: 'I Fight Dragons'
featured_image: 'artists/i-fight-dragons.jpg'
---

## About

I Fight Dragons is a rock band from Chicago,IL. IFD was formed in 2008 when singer [a=Brian Mazzaferri] and keyboards player/backing vocalist [a=Bill Prokopow] discovered the chiptune style while working on a project. The band is famous for their use of the chiptune style, which incorporates sounds found in retro video games. These sounds are made by modified Nintendo controllers and accessories such as the Game Boy. IFD released their debut EP Cool Is Just A Number in early 2009. In early 2010, they signed to Photo Finish/Atlantic Records and released their second EP Welcome to the Breakdown in late 2010. In October of 2011 they released their first full-length album KABOOM!. With help from Nintendo, the band created a music video for the track "Save World Get Girl" which launched on the 3DS Nintendo Video Channel and gained the band many new fans. The band entered the studio in late 2012 to record a companion EP for their first headlining tour, The War of Cyborg Liberation Tour, which was eventually cancelled in favor of making a second full-length album. In early 2013, IFD released a collection of demos from 2010-2011 entitled DEMOlition: Demos That Didn't Make KABOOM! The band also left their label in 2013. In addition, the band contributed a short theme song, titled "Rewind", for the 80's-inspired ABC sitcom The Goldbergs. In mid-2013, IFD revealed Project ATMA, a Kickstarter project to fund their second album The Near Future without help from a label. They raised $115,052 towards the making of the album, surpassing their goal by about $95,000. After being delayed multiple times, The Near Future was released on December 9, 2014. The album reached #5 on the Billboard Vinyl Album Charts during the week it was released. On August 7, 2017, the band announced a Patreon project, "Album Adventures," where they would use donations from fans to fund the making of their next album and beyond. After nearly 2 years of working on the album, IFD's third album Canon Eyes was released to their Patreon backers on August 5th, 2019.
