---
title: 'Karl Shiflett & Big Country Show'
featured_image: 'artists/karl-shiflett-big-country-show.jpg'
---

## About

 In 1993 Karl Shiflet stepped from behind the scenes as a side man to the forefront as a band leader. At first the group billed themselves as Karl Shiflett & Big Country.  In 1995 the band taped a couple of 30 minute television shows for a local cable station.  The Karl Shiflett & Big Country Show  aired only a couple of times but the name had such a ring to it that it soon became the official band name.  The band travelled extensively, paying their dues, recording  albums (on cassette tapes) and perfecting their single microphone stage show.  By the time they hit Louisville, KY in the fall of 1998 they were a seasoned team of professionals with a polished show. The group took the IBMA World of Bluegrass by storm with a main stage showcase and landed a record deal with Rebel Records. The bands first release on Rebel Records  in August of 1999 hit the genre like a breath of fresh air, gaining the group thousands of new fans and becoming one of the labels best sellers in recent years. The single Where the smoke goes up went to the top of the charts giving the band instant national recognition with a song and sound they could easily be identified with. 
The group recorded two more albums with the label, In Full Color (2001) and Worries on my mind (2003). Both projects with chart topping songs, rave reviews and an industry wide buzz.  The 2001 release coincided with the group being the recipients of the  IBMA Emerging Artist of the year award  while the 2003 release brought the band their first number 1 song with the single Worries on my Mind.  The single brought further recognition to the band as it hit the number one spot  in the Americana Roots Music charts  as well as squeezing in at number 40 in the Top 40 Texas Music charts . The impact of this album was so great that it in 2011 Texas Music Magazine named Worries on my Mind as number two in the Top 10 Bluegrass albums of all time just behind the Dixie Chicks album Thank Heavens for Dale Evans. 
Riding the coat tails of the success of Worries on my Mind the group took advantage of the ripple effect for as long as it would last. The group did not release another studio album for 9 years. In 2011 the group signed with Pinecastle Records  and the following year released the highly anticipated album Take me Back . The long awaited project was welcomed with open arms, receiving wide spread airplay, rave reviews and good sales. Although it did not see the charting success of their previous releases it did manage to rank number 8 in Bluegrass Music Profiles Top 10 albums of the year for 2012. The group's latest recording Sho Nuff Country on Patuxent Music Records was released in November of 2016 and was graciously embraced by Country/Alternative radio. It ended the month of November in the  #1 spot on APD's (Airplay Direct's) Top 50  Country/ Alt. Album charts.
In May of 2014 The Karl Shiflett & Big Country Show  made a trip across the big pond for their first International engagement as they traveled to Alberswill, Switzerland for the Willisau Bluegrass Festival. The band was received with overwhelming response and multiple encores. A major milestone for the band which has opened doors for future tours.
  The Karl Shiflett & Big Country Show  are one of the most popular acts on RFD-TV.  They have been periodically featured guest on The Cumberland Highlanders since 1999. The show , taped at the annual Bluegrass Celebration  held at Bill Monroe's Home place near Rosine, KY reaches millions of homes around the world each week.  The exposure gained from this program has made the band a household name among viewers.
